W-19626762 Agent Visualizer Overview (#2)
mulesoft/docs-agent-visualizer: modules/ROOT/pages/agent-visualizer-components.adoc

= Agent Visualizer Components

Use Agent Visualizer to identify the parts of your agent network and see how they work together. 

> * Distinguish node types (agents and MCP servers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Distinguish node types (agents and MCP servers).
```

> * View edges to see declared and runtime interactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* View edges to see declared and runtime interactions.
```

> * Use layers to focus views on specific environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use layers to focus views on specific environments.
```

> * Open detail cards to inspect metadata and metrics for nodes and access logs and traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open detail cards to inspect metadata and metrics for nodes and access logs and traces.
```

* Review governance indicators such as Flex Gateway protection and applied policies.

[[node-types]]
== Node Types

Nodes in the agent network provide a visual representation of the agents and MCP servers within your agent network including:  

> * xref:agent-visualizer-glossary.adoc#agentforce-agent[Agentforce agents] 

Reviewer: Nice!

* xref:agent-visualizer-glossary.adoc#agent[Agents]
* xref:agent-visualizer-glossary.adoc#broker[Brokers]
* xref:agent-visualizer-glossary.adoc#mcp-server[MCP servers]

For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#viewing-node-details[Viewing Node Details].

[[edges]]
== Edges

Edges represent the relationships and communications among your nodes:

* Declared edges appear between node instances when no runtime information is available because there's no registered traffic between them. Dashed lines on the graph indicate declared edges.
* Runtime edges appear between nodes when traffic is registered and a Flex Gateway exists. Solid lines on the graph indicate runtime edges. Clicking on a runtime edge opens the detail panel and shows the relevant metrics.
+
Edges are drawn under specific conditions, primarily when the calling agent is protected by a managed Flex Gateway at egress. For more information, see xref:gateway::flex-gateway-managed-ingress-egress.adoc[].

> * If an agent has an egress managed Flex Gateway, when it calls another agent the edge is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If an agent has an egress managed Flex Gateway, when it calls another agent, the edge is visible.
```

* If the requesting agent doesn't have an egress Flex Gateway, no edge metric is generated and the edge isn't shown.
* Broker agents that route outbound calls through an egress Flex Gateway, allowing requests between broker agents, or from a broker agent to an external agent, appear in the agent network visualization.

> Selecting an edge opens the detail panel, which displays relationship information and metrics. For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#viewing-edge-details[Viewing Edge Details].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting an edge opens the detail panel, which displays relationship information and metrics. For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#view-edge-details[View Edge Details].
```

Data flow layers are used to group nodes in the agent network visualization. They help you highlight specific types of nodes in the visualization.

* Production Data Flow Layer
+
The default view, Production Data Flow Layer, shows all agentic assets that are published in Exchange, declared edges (design-time relationships), and production traffic (live connections).
* Non-Production Traffic Layer    
+
You can turn on the nonproduction traffic layer to see nonproduction traffic (test and sandbox connections). 

For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#view-data-flow-layers[View Data Flow Layers].

[[details-card]]
== Details Cards

The details card is the primary means for gaining detailed, 360-degree information about a selected node or edge. It includes metadata and links to relevant resources like logs, policies, and more.

image::agent-visualizer-details-card.png[Agent Visualizer details card showing metadata and links to relevant resources]

[[policy-visualization]]
== Policy Visualization

The policy visualization shows nodes that are protected by a Flex Gateway indicated by a shield icon. Data about applied policies comes from API Manager.

> You can see the details of applied policies in detail card for the selected node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the details of applied policies in the details card for the selected node. 
```

> = Understand the Agent Visualizer Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Agent Visualizer Components
```

Reviewer: (Since it's a concept. Alternatively, use a gerund.)

Agent Visualizer shows the architectural structure of your agent network. Explore node types such as brokers, agents, and Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, and edges that show declared and runtime relationships and traffic. Use layers and filters to focus your view, and detail cards to see metadata and metrics.

[[node-types]]
== Node Types

> There are different types of nodes in the agent network to provide a visual representation of different agentic assets (agents, brokers, and MCP servers) within the agent network. Nodes show you the structure, interactions, health, and governance of distributed agents, brokers, and MCP servers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different types of nodes in the agent network provide a visual representation of the agentic assets (agents, brokers, and MCP servers) within the agent network. Nodes show you the structure, interactions, health, and governance of distributed agents, brokers, and MCP servers. 
```

> • Broker nodes

Reviewer: This is rendering as a bullet instead of asterisk for me. OK?

Reviewer: I wonder if a DL would be better.

+
Represent broker groups and enumerate the different broker agents they can communicate with. Broker groups are defined in the broker YAML and published to Anypoint Exchange.

> • Agents

Reviewer: bullet

+

> An agent is an autonomous software component that uses goals, context, and available tools (often via an LLM) to decide and execute actions on behalf of a user or system. The agent nodes include:

Reviewer: To be parallel with Nodes...

Autonomous software components that use...

Reviewer: Do you need to expand "LLM"? (writer.ai didn't think you needed to expand MCP...)

+

> ** Agentforce agents

Reviewer: No terminating punctuation in this sublist (not complete sentences)

+
Agents that originate from Agentforce. 
** External agents
+
Agents that originate from external, non-Salesforce platforms, such as OpenAI, Bedrock, Vertex AI, and so on. 
** Brokers
+

> A broker is an intelligent routing service that coordinates task delegation across specialized agents in your enterprise. Brokers originate from MuleSoft and are referenced in the agent network YAML. 

Reviewer: Trying to figure out what to suggest to make this parallel.

> • MCP servers

Reviewer: Should this be "MCP server nodes"?

Author: No, just MCP servers

+

> These nodes represent MCP servers. An MCP server is a service that implements the Model Context Protocol to expose tools and data to AI clients, enabling LLMs to invoke external capabilities through a standard interface.

Reviewer: I wonder if it makes sense to have a glossary with these terms (and link to the definitions here), so you don't interrupt the flow of this content with the definitions. It'd be easier to make the lists parallel in that case.

In the Agent Visualizer graph, nodes show icons and labels, indicating their type (agent, broker, or MCP server), name, and protection status at a glance. 

> Selecting a node opens the Inspector Panel, which provides detailed information about the node. For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#viewing-node-details[Viewing Node Details].

Reviewer: Should Inspector Panel be in bold (UI element)?

[[edges]]
== Edges

> Edges represent the relationships and communications among your nodes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edges represent the relationships and communications among your nodes:
```

> You can see two types of edges: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Declared edges appear between node instances when there is no runtime information available because there's no registered traffic among them. These are shown as dashed lines on the graph.

Reviewer: A DL here might make this easier to scan.

> * Declared edges appear between node instances when there is no runtime information available because there's no registered traffic among them. These are shown as dashed lines on the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Declared edges appear between node instances when no runtime information is available because there's no registered traffic between them. Dashed lines on the graph indicate declared edges.
```

> * Runtime edges are shown between nodes when traffic is registered and a Flex Gateway exists. Solid lines on the graph indicate runtime edges. Clicking on a runtime edge opens the detail panel and shows the relevant metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Runtime edges appear between nodes when traffic is registered and a Flex Gateway exists. Solid lines on the graph indicate runtime edges. Clicking on a runtime edge opens the detail panel and shows the relevant metrics.
```

Reviewer: When Flex Gateway is init cap, is it a product name? If so, don't use the article.

Reviewer: nm, it appears that it's used both ways in the Flex docs.

Edges are drawn under specific conditions, primarily when the calling agent is protected by a Flex Gateway at egress.

> * If an agent has an egress Flex Gateway, when it calls another agent the edge is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If an agent has an egress Flex Gateway, when it calls another agent, the edge is visible.
```

Reviewer: or, "the edge is visible when it calls another agent"?

* If the requesting agent doesn't have an egress Flex Gateway, no edge metric is generated and the edge isn't shown.
* Broker agents that route outbound calls through an egress Flex Gateway, allowing requests between broker agents, or from a broker agent to an external agent, appear in the agent network visualization.

Selecting an edge opens the detail panel, which displays relationship information and metrics. For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#viewing-edge-details[Viewing Edge Details].

== Data Flow Layers

Data flow layers are used to group nodes in the agent network visualization. They help you highlight specific types of nodes in the visualization.

* Production Data Flow Layer
+

> This is the default view. It shows all agentic assets that are published in Anypoint Exchange, declared edges (design-time relationships), and production traffic (live connections).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default view, Production Data Flow Layer, shows all agentic assets that are published in Exchange, declared edges (design-time relationships), and production traffic (live connections).
```

* Non-Production Traffic Layer    
+

> You can choose to turn on the non-production traffic layer to see non-production traffic (test and sandbox connections). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can turn on the nonproduction traffic layer to see nonproduction traffic (test and sandbox connections). 
```

For more information, see xref:view-and-navigate-agent-network.adoc#viewing-data-flow-layers[Viewing Data Flow Layers].

[[filters]]
== Filters

> Filters help you narrow the dataset that's shown, helping you focus on the most relevant information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use filters to narrow the dataset that's shown, helping you focus on the most relevant information.
```

You can filter by: 

* Environment
* Agent type
* Platform

[[details-card]]
== Details Cards

> The details card is the primary means for gaining detailed, 360-degree information about a selected node or edge. It includes metadata about the node or edge and links to relevant resources like logs, policies, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The details card is the primary means for gaining detailed, 360-degree information about a selected node or edge. It includes metadata and links to relevant resources like logs, policies, and more.
```

[[policy-visualization]]
== Policy Visualization

> The policy visualization enables you to see nodes that are protected by a Flex Gateway at a glance. Nodes that are protected by a Flex Gateway are shown with a shield icon. Data about applied policies comes from API Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy visualization shows nodes that are protected by a Flex Gateway indicated by a shield icon. Data about applied policies comes from API Manager.
```
